# Installing Chargeback

Chargeback consists of a few components:

- A daemon named promsum which retrieves usage information from Prometheus and
  persists it in S3.
- A chargeback pod which generates reports based on the collected usage
  information.
- Hive and Presto clusters, used by the chargeback pod to perform queries on the
  collected usage data.

## Prerequisites

In order to install and use chargeback the following components will be
necessary:

- AWS credentials with permission to write to and read from an S3 bucket.
- A tectonic installed Kubernetes cluster, of version 1.8.0 or greater, or with
  a Tectonic Prometheus Operator to be of version 1.6.0 or greater (Prometheus
  operator v0.13).
- A properly configured kubectl to access the Kubernetes cluster.

To alter the version of the Tectonic Prometheus operator to be 1.6.0, run the following
command:

```
kubectl -n tectonic-system patch deploy tectonic-prometheus-operator -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"tectonic-prometheus-operator","image":"quay.io/coreos/tectonic-prometheus-operator:v1.6.0"}]}}}}'
```

Once the operator changes the version of the `kube-state-metrics` pod to 1.0.1,
chargeback installation may proceed.

## Modify Chargeback data stores

Chargeback has a few CRDs that are installed to control what types of reports
can be generated. More information on this is available in the [documentation on
Chargeback's CRD model][crd-model], but the data stores must be modified to
point to a valid S3 bucket.

Modify the `bucket` and `prefix` keys in
`manifests/chargeback-resources/data-store.yaml` to match
where the collected usage data should be stored.

As an example:

```
apiVersion: chargeback.coreos.com/prealpha
kind: ReportDataStore
metadata:
    name: "default-datastore"
    labels:
        tectonic-chargeback: "true"
spec:
    storage:
        type: "s3"
        format: "json"
        bucket: "chargeback-datastore"
        prefix: "promsum/memory_by_pod"
    queries:
    - "get-memory-by-pod"
```

## Have a namespace for Chargeback to run in

Chargeback will install into an existing namespace. Without configuration, the
default is currently `team-chargeback`.

If a different namespace should be used, or you need to customize the location of the docker pull-secret to pull the chargeback docker images, you can override the following environment variables (defaults are used in the example):

```
export CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE=team-chargeback
export PULL_SECRET_NAMESPACE=tectonic-system
export PULL_SECRET=coreos-pull-secret
```

## Prometheus location

If Prometheus was setup by Tectonic and is running within the tectonic-system namespace, then you can skip this section.

If you're running the Prometheus operator yourself (not using the Tectonic one), then you need to configure the `prometheus-url` in `manifests/chargeback/chargeback-config.yaml` to match the service created by your Prometheus operator.

## Set AWS Credentials

The install script will detect if AWS credentials are stored in the environment
variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and ask if these
credentials should be used to create a secret in Kubernetes for Chargeback to
use.

This is recommended, but if these variables are not set the install script
will print out instructions indicating which file you need to modify and create
before running `install.sh`.

## Set AWS region

Chargeback and promsum currently need to be configured to use a specific AWS
region. This is only temporary, and this requirement should be removed in the
future. Until then, change the `aws-region` value in
`manifests/chargeback/chargeback-config.yaml`.

## Run the install script

Run `./hack/install.sh` to install Chargeback on the cluster.

## Verifying operation

Check the logs of the "promsum" deployment, there should be no errors:

```
kubectl get pods -n $CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE -l app=promsum -o name | cut -d/ -f2 | xargs -I{} kubectl -n $CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE logs {} -f
```

## Generating reports

With Chargeback now successfully installed, reports may be generated. Note that
promsum will need to run for some time (probably over a half hour) for enough
usage data to be built up to generate a report. Reports can be generated by
creating report objects in Kubernetes in the same namespace as Chargeback. Some
examples of report objects exist in the `examples` directory.

To deploy an example pod usage by memory report, first modify
`examples/pod-report.yaml` and set your `bucket` and `reportStart`/`reportEnd`,
then create the report in Kubernetes:

```
kubectl -n $CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE create -f examples/pod-memory-usage-by-node-report.yaml
```

Existing reports can be viewed in Kubernetes with the following command:

```
kubectl -n $CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE get reports
```

A report's status can be inspected by viewing the object with the `-o json`
flag:

```
kubectl -n $CHARGEBACK_NAMESPACE get report pod-memory-usage -o json
```

## Uninstall

To uninstall chargeback run:
```
./hack/uninstall.sh
```

## AWS Billing data setup

**AWS billing reports were temporarily removed from chargeback due to a
refactor, the following documentation is left in for when this functionality is
restored**

* Setup hourly billing reports in the AWS console by following [these](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awsaccountbilling/latest/aboutv2/billing-reports-gettingstarted-turnonreports.html) instructions. Be sure to note the bucket, report prefix, and report name specified here.

* Create AWS access key with permissions for the bucket given above. The required permissions are:
```
s3:DeleteObject
s3:GetObject
s3:GetObjectAcl1
s3:PutObject
s3:PutObjectAcl
s3:GetBucketAcl
s3:ListBucket
s3:GetBucketLocation
```

Once you have an `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` refer to
[Set AWS Credentials](set-aws-credentials) and [Set AWS region](set-aws-region) for configuring.

[crd-model]: CRD-Model.md
